I always remember when super mario 64
came out on the n64 and it was the first
time I really felt like I was freely
exploring a 3d space and I wasn't
thinking about the technology the three
deenis of it but mostly about the fact
that it felt like a real place which was
always the dream to go into an imaginary
virtual place inside the machine I think
in some ways it's fun for someone who's
like a young child to like do something
really powerful on the screen and I
think that's one of the strongest
feelings you get when you're playing
video games is that feeling of
I missed that world that I want to go
back to it and that's what you try to
achieve with every game you make is to
create a world so real that people miss
it when they're not playing the game for
mukya and there's really me sitting
around writing a lot of little short
stories I wrote these one-page storage
is over and over going and really trying
to pull out of that world what it was
that was going to be interesting about
that to me the main character in an
adventure game is the world it's not
Guybrush Threepwood it's the world
it's that world that he exists and the
irish is the lens that we use to look at
that over and it was really like making
sure that world made a lot of sense
without a doubt the the single largest
advance in the in the development of
video games is the presence of network
connectivity as soon as games will be
able to network and then
the Internet it created this ability to
create imaginary worlds with real people
this is not about something that could
change the history of video games this
is the biggest change in humanity that
we've probably had since the development
of fire no time ever in the history of
the world has more music been played
more times than in video games right now
my world of warcraft where people are
playing 2030 hours a week and the music
is in your face how do you know we're
doing things now that that Beethoven and
Mozart never dreamed up that would be
possible you know we're able to to do
things and music and and branch out
interactively and and if the player
stops here then we need to keep this
rolling but if he goes in that direction
then let's start bringing in a
percussion track it's almost like the
player becomes the conductor
that I've always said that if Beethoven
were alive today he'd be a video game
composer no doubt in my mind your skill
watching a movie might be eating popcorn
let's go playing a game is you feel like
you've succeeded at learning something
and you're good at it
you press the button you jump it's not
just a jump when you press the button
cool funny you jump higher when you jump
and push left when you're going right
you just change the direction in the air
all these things add to this visceral
experience within the game that you'd
never get from a movie you feel like
you're learning something like riding a
bike or riding a skateboard and you come
back to it and improve it
and there's something about that
motivation there's something about that
kind of experience that drives a player
to continue to play that game and come
back to it again again it's it's not
just a puzzle it's something that people
really can relate to and and and feel
very emotional about Disney Epic Mickey
it wasn't just an intellectual exercise
for players it wasn't just mash buttons
and eat a bad guy for players it really
touches people I hope they see the
potential of video games as a medium
where you can learn something about the
world and about yourself try things out
in a virtual world that we would never
want you trying out in the real world
and return to the real world from these
virtual worlds kind of a changed and
better person video games aren't this
trivial little form of entertainment
it's not like just a colorful crossword
or something that we're doing here this
is this is something that touches people
deeply if you don't play video games yet
we we are going to get you with trust me
we are going to find a way to get a game
to you so you can understand just how
powerful this medium is
you